Proposed 1 June 2000; Accepted in revised form 5 January 2001 (Plymouth AGM)

1. The group shall be known as the Quantitative Methods Research Group, which may be abbreviated to QMRG.
2. The aim of the Group is to further research and education in all aspects of quantitative and computer methods in geography.
3. The Research Group is a "branch" of the Royal Geographical Society (with The Institute of British Geographers) and must satisfy the aims and policies of the Society, including Equal Opportunity policy, and the legal and Charity Commissioner requirements. The Research Group must deliver an Annual Report and statement of accounts to the Society demonstrating that these aims and policies are being adhered to.
4. Membership of the QMRG shall be open to all Fellows (including Associate Fellows) of the Royal Geographical Society (with The Institute of British Geographers) who elect to join the Research Group, but shall never be less than 30. Membership of the QMRG will be free of charge, or for those who are already a member of two further Research Groups, for an additional fee as may from time to time be determined by the QMRG AGM. This additional fee is collected with annual Fellowship subscriptions. Other interested persons who are not Fellows of the RGS-IBG may join the QMRG for an additional fee as may from time to time be determined by the QMRG AGM which will be collected separately by the QMRG.
5. The business of the QMRG shall be conducted by a Committee of no less than 4 members. Specified roles within the Committee include the following: Chairperson, Secretary/Treasurer, CATMOG editor and Newsletter editor. Each of these roles shall be undertaken by elected Fellows of the RGS-IBG. The Committee will have the power to co-opt up to two members. The majority of the Committee must be Fellows of the RGS-IBG.
6. The offices of Chair, Secretary/Treasurer and other committee members shall be for three years. Committee members may stand for a second term of three years, but must relinquish their post after the sixth year of office.
7. Elections to the Committee will be held at the Annual General Meeting. Members will be informed in writing 30 days prior to the AGM of all vacancies to be filled. Nominations for Committee membership will be accepted up to the beginning of the AGM. They must be in writing and include the names of the proposer and seconder.
8. The Annual General Meeting shall be held at the Annual Conference. The QMRG shall present an Annual Report and Statement of Accounts to the RGS-IBG as requested, and normally by 31st January each year.
9. The constitution can be changed only by two-thirds majorityvote of those present at an Annual General Meeting, provided that the membership has been individually notified of the proposed changes in writing or by email at least 30 days in advance. Research Group constitutions that have been altered by the AGM of the Research Group should then be submitted for approval by the Research Committee of the RGS-IBG at their next meeting.
10. The activities of the research groups should not contravene the aims of the Royal Geographical Society (with the Institute of British Geographers). The QMRG may be terminated only in accordance with the rules of the RGS-IBG.